---
title: "A Chess Puzzle"
subtitle: "Mardi Maths #2"
description: "How many chess pieces can you place so no piece attacks any other piece?"

# featuredImage: "chess-puzzle.png"
# previewOnly: false
# caption: false

authors: ["pranshu"]

tags: ["chess"]
category: puzzle

createdAt: 2021-04-06T00:30:00+05:30
updatedAt: 2021-04-06T00:30:00+05:30

showReadingTime: false
math: true
toc: false

draft: false
featured: false
---

For the second puzzle of [Mardi Maths](/puzzles), we have a chess puzzle!

Recall how chess pieces move:

- Rooks move in straight lines up, down, left, or right.
- Bishops can move diagonally.
- Queens can move up, down, left, right, or diagonally.
- Kings can move one step in any direction.
- Pawns attack forward-left or forward-right.
- Knight move in an L-shaped pattern. Two steps forward and one step sideways.

You can practice the pieces' movements on [lichess.org](https://lichess.org/learn).

## The Problem

You are trying to place as many white pieces on the board as possible such that no piece attacks any other piece.
For the sake of this problem, assume that pieces can attack other pieces of the same colour.

_Tip:_ You may find it helpful to play around with pieces on a board on the [lichess board editor](https://lichess.org/editor/8/8/8/8/8/8/8/8_w_-_-_0_1).

Here are 7 variants of this problem:

### 1

What is the maximum number of rooks you can place on a $8\times 8$ chessboard such that no two rooks attack each other?

The following figure shows an arrangement of rooks that does not work.

### 2

What is the maximum number of knights you can place on an $8 \times 8$ chessboard such that no two knights attack each other?

### 3

What is the maximum number of bishops you can place on an $8\times 8$ chessboard such that no two bishops attack each other?

### 4

What is the maximum number of kings you can place on an $8\times 8$ chessboard such that no two kings attack each other?

### 5

What is the maximum number of pawns you can place on an $8 \times 8$ chessboard such that no pawn attacks any other pawn?

### 6

What is the maximum number of queens you can place on an $8 \times 8$ chessboard such that no two queens attack each other?

### 7

What is the maximum number of chess pieces you can place on an $8\times 8$ chessboard such that no piece attacks any other piece? You are free to use kings, queens, rooks, bishops, knights, and pawns.

&nbsp;

Good luck, have fun!

---

[Send your attempts to me!](/contact)

- If you have solved the problem, share your solutions! Best explanations will be featured in the next Mardi Maths.

- If you are stuck, share your progress. What have you you tried so far?

- Let me know if there's an error or something's not clear in the puzzle.

- I would love your feedback. Did you find the puzzles interesting / easy / difficult?

- If you have any puzzles that you would like featured in this series, share those too!

---

[Chess pieces](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:SVG_chess_pieces) by [Cburnett](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Cburnett) are licensed under [CC BY-SA 3.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/deed.en).
